we are two people who both talked about
the future talk about our educational
prospects and our job options in terms
of how they might or might not want
positive the length of veganism
we're not obsessed with the idea that
our jobs have to be vegan but it would
be great if there's some kind of
positive connection between how we are
funny how we survive and the fusion
fission movement and we talk about a lot
of options
so within the last year I've mentioned
this in other videos before this isn't
news but she and I have both thought
about going back to school getting a
degree linked to nutritional science so
that's a horror biochemistry based
degree takes like four and a half years
minimum and leads to pretty low level
employment as a nutritionist you know
you that's that's group of both of us in
research I think we've researched it
independently before we ever got to back
together and then we talked about doing
it together partly because if you have
to take those courses like intro to
chemistry 101 would be a lot less
depressing if you're in the classroom
with somebody you're in love with and
you get to go home and study together
you know it really could take the edge
off that stuff so we got a question from
from a viewer here as two people again
really in an open-minded way we've just
looked at a lot of different career
options educational options since we got
together and we're looking for things
that are positively connected veganism
so we've got a email from a viewer in
Argentina and this viewer basically I'll
read it directly quote when I first got
into veganism I was thinking about
studying something related to biology
zoology botany ecology something along
those lines but these last few months I
started talking about the real meaning
and importance of veganism and whether
or not I would be better off spending my
time studying political science so she's
questioning broadly is it better to go
down the path of the hard sciences
whether ecology chemistry biology or
otherwise or looking at the social
sciences politics because vegan is
veganism is ultimately a political
struggle features what was perfect to
dick so I'm right off the bat they've I
mean you know it's hard for you looking
at the movement looking at look at
what's going on what's possible what's
impossible I think I think for you
that's four words in your mouth but I
think whenever you sit down and talk
about a possible master's degree or a
possible for the university or with your
family the question is how is this to re
going to pay for itself how are you
hearing back money yeah yeah for sure I
was going to lead to a good career
something that will allow me to have a
family and great retire on or I mean to
put in other words what job does this
qualify you for yeah so I mean you know
holders I already have one degree in
political science currently getting a
second to Communication Studies so my
perspective is totally different but my
girlfriend here I mean I think you're
just someone who would be tempted by
politics because you care about politics
politics of ecology politics of veganism
and so on especially but I think it's
that general sense of wanting to be
empowered one a of expertise that will
help you make a positive difference in
the world Ryan yeah yes why we were
thinking about masters of Public
Administration sort of to do with
politics right right so look broadly
speaking so in response to this viewer
from Argentina I can't speak on how the
university chakra Carson theta of course
but I think that the whole field of
political science for one thing is
struggling to be a science it's
strolling to justify itself as something
other than just opinion you could have a
academic discipline called political
opinion where you come in and read other
people put a clip in and give your it's
not called for the clips median it's
called political science and I think
there's the different attempts to square
the circle different attempts to solve
that impossible to solve problem because
it may it may be there really is no
solution to that it may be you that
ultimately this is just a school of
opinion but one way is by trying to
define the discipline in terms of
bureaucracy which is what masters of
Public Administration is where they okay
this isn't politics anymore public
administration public sector
administration means if your office
you know so the actual mechanisms of the
state and ultimately how to fill out
form t28 form is e55 how running
organizations works how government
agencies works how the mechanics is to
get things done so I think that for you
in terms of actually convincing your
parents that this is worth ten thousand
dollars or fifty thousand dollars in the
United States it's very very expensive
that's crucial because you're able to
point to the curriculum and say this is
actually giving me a skill it's giving
me training it's giving me a
qualification to do a job otherwise I
would not be able to do and that is not
true of masters of Public Policy at
qualifies you to do almost nothing and
it's not true of political science as a
discipline which is scary it's scary to
think you're going to spend years of
your life dozens of dollars and at the
end of the process you are qualified for
no jobs other than what you were
qualified for before you you medical so
they feel free to interrupt me anytime
but obviously in answering this question
that's something I have a lot to say
about and you know you you won't have as
much to pile on with but it does it does
really cure your past present future a
weird way I do think like in the United
States many many of the universities in
political science try to legitimize
themselves legitimize themselves as a
science as a discipline and to make the
very high rate the very high fees for
higher education were going through two
methods which we really don't do in
Canada it's a difference even between
United States and Canada bigger between
United States and Europe two methods one
they try to get celebrity professors so
like means you barely remember from the
Clinton administration Bill Clinton's
Secretary of State Bill Clinton's
special ambassador for this and that old
politicians they bring them in they make
professors out of them and say oh you
know you'll get to meet this person and
ask them what it felt like to press the
button to drop that bomb on Cambodia or
drop the you know start you know that
the other Iraq war
and like it sounds like a joke but it's
not it's big business
in the States by having celebrity
professors by recruiting people from
government they're often reassuring
students that they'll be able to get a
job because there's the hope that this
celebrity professor will get you an
internship or get you you know an open
open a door to some kind of job in
Washington DC or somewhere else in the
US government you'll be making
connections that justify spending a huge
amount of money on tuition and the
second trick in the United States that I
think is a bit more of a pervasive
corrosive that I've never mentioned it
to you before but it's horrible like if
you said to me you really want to do
political science not public
administration I would warn you in the
States especially they put a lot of
emphasis on statistics I talked about
this right after Trump got elected
action in more videos a patreon only
video but you know they put so much
emphasis on crunching numbers and that
to me is clinging to this idea that it's
political science it decided that's it
and those poll numbers what we've seen
in the election of Trump especially the
fact that it was a surprise those
numbers have actually become less and
less meaningful they're often polling
data based on telephone interviews
people they phoned up 5,000 people in
Florida and asked them who they were
going to vote for and asked them a few
other questions how happy or unhappy
they are with the government things of
that and then they crunch those numbers
and produce seemingly impressive-looking
charts and some very complex equations
on a chalkboard chalkboard you have to
write exams about they're really burdens
the student and again most of students
are coming in they're people who
sincerely care about politics one way or
another whether they're left-wing or
right-wing whether they're vegan or
they're into gun rights whatever their
issue is and that's a very boring
burdensome process of learning to crunch
numbers that probably dissuades a lot of
people from from studying political
science I would say in Europe is there
is there is emphasis on polling but it
doesn't quite take on that that form
that's young the state and outside of
that real quick to say if you're looking
for horror political science something
that's not just come in and talk about
your emotions not just come in and talk
about your feelings and will give you a
master's degree you're really going to
be surprised by them the things that
look look hard or actually the softest
so you'll have a program in
something like international human
rights they they oh great
so this is going to be real politics cuz
we're talking about refugee camps if
we're talking about massacres and crimes
against humanity and then you get there
and it's kind of like a school for
victimology and people are just sitting
down and talking about their feelings
and social justice rhetoric and at the
end of the process you haven't gained
any any skills any itemized Abul
specific skills on your resume for any
job you can do and there have been a lot
of reflections about that from
professors themselves i find professors
are quite willing to talk about the
shortcomings of the academic approach to
the teaching and study of politics but
look so I mean look I've got one test
subject here if I was going to put this
out as a general question I mean should
anybody in 2017 get a diploma in
political science I my own girlfriend my
answer is no so I know this bright young
woman who happened to be in love with
she's interested in veganism and a lot
of the political issues I'm interested
in but I can't say to her yes commit
buckle don't get a get a degree in
political I can't say that and you know
even just that even just as a thought
experiment if I think of who should get
a degree in who should get a degree in
political science the answer is almost
tech support more to get in here fix the
camera what is this okay well fine
never off-center that's cool that's a
suitable end of the video I know you got
you got you got anything else
particularly Nambe because I can't
recommend the Chi goes into that field
and with the exception is what I study
in a studied English yeah I mean nothing
that I'm going into really will be
building on that anyway nothing that
I've looked into really I mean English
did help me with communication skills
just general write writing really it is
generally useful degree and I got a
bachelor's so that's great yeah I it's
funny you say that because when you
think about in a perfect world those
really to those who should be
Lynx because I mean yeah one of my
friends did get a yeah when I ran
English and a political science project
yes her job right now
and I've nothing to do with either of
those degrees work at Starbucks
marketing Morgan okay man I know that's
better or worse than working at
Starbucks
yeah but when you think about it because
in terms of the other political science
kids I knew look I could talk a good
game before I went in to that you know
the degree in political science is not a
degree in oratory it's not a degree in
public speaking it's not a degree in
even in writing how to write essays well
or how to write columns or both as well
it's not agreeing communications and
it's not a degree in English but I think
one of the things that's very sad of a
political science is that most people
even if they come out of with a PhD even
future level they are actually not good
at talking about politics or writing
about politics look really really really
really and I mean maybe that's the most
kind of fundamental swindle of all you
know I mean maybe for some people if
what you want to do is politics you it's
pathetic as the sense you might even be
better off getting a degree in
literature or create or nor afraid of
writing or something you know what I
mean if you have a good program in that
yeah so that's that's it kids
the question should anyone get a degree
in political science as a gross
generalization globally and I've got
experience in many many universities in
Asia funny places like Taiwan and Hong
Kong in Canada a lot in Europe too
I don't know anywhere where I could
positively say especially if you're
interested in ecology yours isn't
veganism but in any field right now I
really do think the whole academic
discipline is bankrupt I think it's
making hollow promises to students that
the professor's can't deliver on and
look guys keeping it all the way real a
lot of professors talk to me as an equal
and a friend not all a few hate my guts
it's understandable but you know quite a
few professors really do enjoy talking
to me because I'm older than the other
students and more mature and so on I had
one professor sit down with me and say
that he keeps track of every single
student who finishes study with him what
they do after they after they leave and
he told me that zero
found a real job so you know some were
employed like you say in Starbucks or
marketing's they'd found something but
it's somebody gotten a little part-time
position saying he said zero of his
students and he's I'm not going to name
him but he said he's a real world expert
in his field he is one of the best of
the best in his in his field and you
know I've had other professors you know
tell me the same thing where at this
point they're teaching politics but they
teach it the same way you teach poetry
we just say to your students look if
you're not doing it for the love of the
genre here for the love p.m. you'll get
out now because this leads to absolutely
no you get no employable skills you know
so why did you go into the political
science when you're getting that that's
a great question I'm going to first stop
and maybe we'll record that as a second
video as a sequel why did I end up in
political science at all nobody is
asking that before a great day